{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24360\viewh12760\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 CPDP - Mozilla panel pitch \
\

\f1\b Panel Title: \

\f0\b0 Online Privacy, Algorithmic Bias, and Political Advertisement; an Interdisciplinary Investigation\
\

\f1\b Panel
\f0\b0  
\f1\b Description
\f0\b0 :\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Automation of decision-making systems responsible for content delivery, either via advertisement vectors or recommender systems filtering and ranking a continuous feed of potential items (##wrong word) introduces a sophisticated (and almost totally opaque) layer to peoples\'92 ability to access information. These may include real-time services that determine what advertisement you see online, what elements make up your facebook, or linked feed, which products amazon shows you as potentially interesting, what videos will start to autoplay when the clip you are currently watching ends, what related news you see at the bottom of your article. Automated decisions are everywhere and they operate quietly, drastically impacting our access to information by defining the information we may believe is out there (## rephrase this to sound less stupid).\
\
In many cases, the definition of a successful system is defined in terms of optimisation criteria that are not in the best interests individuals or societies (##tighten up phrasing here). The potential for misuse, via third-party exploitation of the system\'92s themselves, or intentional bias based on commercial interests of the platforms deploying such systems are completely opaque to the individuals interacting with such systems (## too many uses off the. Word \'93systems\'94). A common underlying belief that has paved the way (## not happy with \'93paved the way\'94) for such immense influence of programmatic micro-targeting is the underlying assumption that more (private) information about an individual equates to a better experience. However, in examining the technical and ecosystem level fo these types of platforms, it is clear that different metrics have been select to optimise the client experience. (Cite, Facebook ad paper and metrics related to engagement).\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 This panel aims to present a multidisciplinary investigation of the interaction between data collection the commercial forces at play for content publishers, and the individual and societal consequences of the operational relationship with our content and information platforms. We present a truly interdisciplinary panel of experts who will discuss the interactions between the different layers at play when a political advertisement is shown on a news site or social media platform. The aim is to better understand the interplay between technological, commercial, legal, and political forces that define our ability to access information online.\
\

\f1\b Speaker profiles:\

\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Moderator: Martin Lopatka (Mozilla)
\f0\b0 \
Research Engineering on privacy and personalisation technologies and Data Scientist at Mozilla. \
Research fellow at Data Active, former forensic statistician, and self-proclaimed data activist.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f1\b [speaker needed] Legal and governance expert:\

\f0\b0 Someone who can speak to the role of policy and government in moderating the influence of platforms. The privacy of human beings, and the defence of our communication infrastructure (and news media). This individual will round off the \'93high-level\'94 discussion with insight into the relationship between democracy, government, and platforms. They should be able to provide a high level understanding of the legal status of online tracking and answer questions in this vein:\
1- How is personalised algorithmic micro targeting related to GDPR? Is it possible to protect myself legally (if not technically)?\
2- Do we see a real threat of election interference via political advertisement deployed in this ecosystem and can you provide examples of known attacks?\
3- What is the role of consent in the legislative context regarding biased information access on social media platforms?\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 [speaker needed] Content producers/publishers news media expert:
\f0\b0 \
Someone who can speak to the relationship between journalism and online platforms with an ecosystem-level view.\
We need someone to represent the content publishers. Someone with a deep experience into the news media and digital news media industry who ideally would be comfortable answering questions like:\
1- Why do news sites allow third-party code to run on their pages?\
2- What is the nature of trading visitor site activity information with advertisers, is it purely monetary or is there an exchange taking place for page traffic etc?\
3- How effective are subscription models/ pay per read in the competition versus \'93free\'94 content providers?\
4- What is the necessity of a social media presence for news/media publishers, is it all about reach or a more complex relationship?\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 [speaker confirmed] Systemic and societal impacts (Stefania)
\f0\b0 \
Speaker who bridges the gap between the very technical level and the immediate implications when it comes to how people get information. We would expect a concise. Description of filter-bubbles and the societal risk. Connecting the technical layer fo the discussion with a compelling narrative of the consequences fo technical decisions to optimise on engagement/revenue. This person should be technically competent in terms of system design, but ideally from a humanities or social science background and preferably familiar with the scientific literature on this topic.\
Sample questions that they should be able to authoritatively discus:\
1- Why are the current incentives implemented in content recommendation systems an ideal environment for polarising content?\
2- How does the prevalence of social media as a content platform affect the ability of an average citizen top access a diverse set of viewpoints on a topic?\
3- Do we see a change in people\'92s information accessing behaviour and opinion forming, can you provide an example of the interaction with algorithmic \

\f1\b \
[speaker confirmed] Technical biases in information collection (Sarah Bird)\

\f0\b0 Someone who can speak to the technical layer of how personal information is collected, describe the pervasiveness of online tracking and the ways it is performed. A comprehensive look into the ad-tech participants and the technology they employ. And set a clear foundation for the discussion with a concise explanation of the online tracking ecosystem. This should be a technologist/engineer and be comfortable with such questions:\
1- What is the prevalence of online tracking on news sites, popular websites?\
2- Technically, what can an individual do to prevent private information from being exfiltrated while they browse the web?\
3- What types of data are collected for resale in targeted advertisement?}